This might sound crazy, but I somehow
made it being a 28-year-old father of
one without ever once going on a camping
trip. And when my friend Caleb found
out, he just about blew a gasket.
He's a real bass pro shop as my
personality kind of guy and the only
person I ever knew who played hunting
games on his Xbox. He hadn't been
hunting in years, but he used to do a
ton of camping weekends with the
National Guard, and he figured that
there was no better buddy bonding method
than heading out into the boonies
together. So, since we were in Buffalo
at the time, he said the cat skills were
probably the best place to go if we
wanted to get as wild as possible while
staying close to home.
We packed light, drove up in his beat up
truck, and then set out into the woods
and found a spot a couple of miles from
the trail head. I had to admit, Caleb
had picked out a real nice spot. It was
nestled into a small clearing surrounded
by pines and maples. And the ground was
soft with fallen pine needles, so even
without the camping chairs, it made for
a good seat. And with a stream gurgling
nearby, we had ourselves a supply of
fresh water, too.
Caleb volunteered to set up both tents.
So, I occupied myself collecting
firewood. It felt pretty cool doing
something useful that had contributed to
building an actual fire. And as kind of
a fire bug during my youth, getting to
make a big one was something that I was
actually very excited about. And by the
time we had it crackling, the night had
settled in and Caleb was showing off
some of the campfire cooking he'd
learned in the guard. He'd made these
things called pudgy pies, which are
basically a ton of peanut butter and
marshmallow fluff between two pieces of
half stale bread. That might not sound
like anything special, but my god, out
there in the woods with the chill of the
night setting in, it was one of the best
things I've ever had the pleasure of
eating. But as we ate, the fire burned
down fast, and it wasn't long before we
needed to collect more firewood.
I volunteered myself, seeing as Caleb
had brought all the food on his own
dime. And then after getting up from my
camping chair, I headed off into the
darkness.
I'd pretty much cleared the area around
the camp, so I had to walk into the
trees with my flashlight to find more
decently sized pieces. I walked around
stacking pieces in the crook of my arm.
And then all of a sudden, I heard
something moving in the darkness ahead
of me. I stopped dead and pointed my
flashlight ahead of me, expecting to see
a deer or something weird, some kind of
woodland creature, but there was
nothing. Now, I called back, "Yo, Caleb,
I think there's something out here." To
which then he replied, "Yeah, of course
there's something out there, buddy. It's
the woods."
And the way he said it had me instantly
kind of relaxing, thinking, "Yeah, I
mean, that little thing is probably more
scared of me than I am of it." Then
after picking up a few more chunks of
logs, I made my way back to the camp.
Once the fire was roaring again, Caleb
cracked open the cooler and we had
ourselves a few cold sodas while
watching the flames like they were TV.
I was just about finished with my soda,
so this couldn't have been more than 15
minutes later when me and Caleb heard
another sound closer to the camp this
time. We both went quiet and turned our
heads in the direction of the sound.
Caleb yelled something like, "Hey, ain't
nothing here for you, buddy. Just move
along now."
And he said it so confidently that I
couldn't imagine anything but the
hungriest black bear not listening to
him. And then a second or two later, we
heard these steady footsteps moving away
from us. I remember being kind of
impressed that it actually worked. I
expected Caleb to be pretty pleased with
himself, and he didn't look pleased with
himself at all. He actually looked
spooked.
I asked him what was up, and I'll never
forget the chill that went through me
when he said,
"That wasn't an animal, buddy.
that
was a person.
I asked how he was sure and he said the
gate was unmistakable as in like the
rhythm of the footsteps told him it was
walking on two legs and not four,
something I wasn't familiar with in the
woods.
I got up walking over to his pack and
took out the little gun case that he
kept his pistol in. And then after
taking it out and loading it and tucking
it into his jacket, he suggested that we
go on a little walk to make sure the
area was still clear and maybe talk to
whoever was out there.
I'm not going to lie, walking the woods
with an armed man who said that he just
wanted to talk to whoever was out there
was pretty godamned wild. But that was
Caleb. He's a friendly guy, but boy can
he handle himself. He wasn't looking for
a fight. Neither of us were about to lay
our heads down to sleep without knowing
that we were in the clear. Once we were
sure the area was clear, we headed back
to camp for what Caleb called a Mexican
pizza. And then after a couple of beers
and a pre-roll that I brought along for
old times sake, we climbed into our
tents for some well-deserved sleep. But
for me, sleep did not come easy.
My little pine needle mattress flattened
out within just a few minutes. And even
with the sleeping pad that I had with
me, the ground was uncomfortably hard to
lay on.
On top of that, I started hearing sounds
outside the tent again. Not as close or
rhythmic as the footsteps we'd heard,
but enough to have my eyes shooting open
every time I heard something a little
too loud.
I remember listening out for Caleb,
thinking, "He's got to hear this, too,
right?" But then I suddenly heard him
snoring softly in his tent. He was out
cold.
I lay there telling myself if Caleb
thinks it's safe enough to sleep, then
it is. And then after sort of chuckling
to myself and feeling like an idiot, I
managed to get comfortable enough to
feel like I was drifting off to sleep,
too.
But then I heard it. A distant noise
that sounded almost like a faint cry of
something alive and in pain.
I remember trying to convince myself
that it was just the wind or maybe an
animal making perfectly normal animal
sounds, but then I heard it again. It
cut through the silence coming from
somewhere deep in the forest. It sounded
almost like a baby crying, like a sharp
and intensely disturbing sound that set
my nerves on edge to hear it. I sat up,
straining to listen while both hearing
and feeling my heart rate pick up. Then
I heard it a third time, and that time
it was completely unmistakable.
It was a high-pitched sob that rose and
fell with the baby's breath. And I'm
sure you'll know what I mean when I say
the sound alone tugged at something
primal in me. Something which said,
"Make it stop."
I rushed to put my boots on, then
unzipped my tent and rushed over to
Caleb's.
I guess running woke him up because he
asked, "What's going on? Before I even
got to his tent, I unzipped it just
enough to be able to see him and then
said, "Sh, listen."
We listened in silence for maybe only a
second before it sounded again. That
same skin crawling baby's whale.
Caleb's eyes went all wide as he pushed
himself out of his sleeping bag, and the
first thing he went for was his gun. I
remember saying, "Bro, there's a kid. I
don't think the gun is going to help."
Because my first thought was like,
"There's a kid out there, lost and
afraid, who actually needs our help."
But then Caleb says, "That's no kid,
buddy. Listen again."
And I remember being just about to
launch into some counterpoint, something
along the lines of, "What the hell are
you talking about?" But then the baby
cried again and I caught on to what he
meant.
There was something wrong with the sound
we were hearing. Something you didn't
notice unless you really listened.
The gut reaction I felt masked it. But
Caleb was right. There was something off
about it. Something weirdly hollow.
And before I could process it, another
cry started. This one from the opposite
direction to the first. It sounded
identical, the exact same eerie whale as
the first, only louder and closer.
But then suddenly the pitch shifted a
little and we realized what we were
listening to. They were recordings.
Now, I'd like to say that that was a
relief, but as you can imagine, there
was still the issue of who the f would
play the sounds of crying babies in the
woods at night.
The thought obviously had Caleb going
for his gun, and he told me to stay low
as he crawled out of his tent and out
into the night. He called out something
oddly calm considering the
circumstances.
"All right, we get it, buddy.
We'll move along in the morning."
I figured that might make the noises
stop, but instead they only got louder.
The recordings of those babies crying
kept looping before a third and then a
fourth joined in. They sounded like they
were all around us by then, like the
whole forest was echoing with the sounds
of whailing infants being played on a
loop. They started overlapping, blending
together as they seemed to get louder
and closer.
Caleb shouted over them, "They're just
trying to scare us, buddy. And if
they're not, I got a gun.
He yelled it like he wanted them to
hear, too. Whoever was out there playing
those goddamned recordings.
And then all at once, the cry stopped.
But the silence that followed was
somehow even worse.
We kept waiting for the sounds to start
up again or for something terrible to
happen, like an attack or gunshots or
whatever these psychos out there had
planned for us.
I asked Caleb what the hell we should do
and all he said was leave.
The fire had died down and I was about
to grab my flashlight when Caleb told me
not to. He said he needed our night
vision to see what was out there and
that flashlights would just make it
easier for them to see us.
But that meant trying to gather up all
our essentials in the near pitch
darkness.
We took turns, one of us with the gun,
the others packing our stuff. Then when
Caleb emerged from his tent after being
the second one to gather up his things,
we made our move.
We didn't speak as I followed him
through the trees. We moved slowly,
heads on a swivel, trying to spot
whoever was out there before they
spotted us.
Caleb had the gun, our only line of
defense between us and whatever was out
there. And despite the night being
pretty cold, I could feel myself
sweating. My heart was racing as we
pushed through the dark underbrush. And
every few steps, I thought I saw
something. I didn't know if we were
going to be attacked, chased, or if we
were walking right into a trap and
didn't even know it. Caleb said we were
moving back towards the trail, which
wasn't even that far. But it felt like
it took forever to get there. In the
darkness, the woods were disorienting,
the trees all looking the same. When we
finally broke through to the trail head,
the sight of Caleb's truck was a huge
relief to the both of us. My hands were
shaking real bad as I fumbled the door
and climbed into the passenger seat.
Caleb didn't hesitate in gunning the
engine before we tore down the dirt road
with the forest blurring past us. We
drove a few miles until we spotted a
diner's neon sign flickering in the
darkness ahead.
Caleb pulled in, killed the engine, and
we sat there for a moment, still pretty
shaken. The parking lot was nearly
empty, just a couple of cars and a
delivery truck, so we figured that it
was as safe a place as any to hang out
until morning.
Neither of us was going back out there
to collect our gear until the sun was
up.
A few tense hours later, with neither of
us being able to sleep, the diner opened
up at 6:00 a.m. and we headed inside for
some breakfast.
A few early morning truckers filed in
and at the counter as me and Caleb
hunched over plates of eggs and bacon.
We talked over what had happened in
these whispered voices and agreed that
someone was obviously trying to scare us
off so they could steal whatever we'd
left behind. I said something about
kicking myself for not standing my
ground if that's all they planned.
Scaring us off, I mean. Caleb said it
was better we avoided violence or we
might have ended up in a jail cell
instead of eating bacon.
I remember looking at the other people
in the diner trying to read their faces.
I wanted to ask if they'd heard
anything, if they knew about the cries
in the woods, but something stopped me.
I then asked Caleb if they thought that
they knew about what was going on out
there, and he agreed they probably did.
When we were done, I paid the bill, and
we stepped back into the parking lot.
The drive back to where we'd been camped
was a tense one. Then, once we'd
finished hiking back to the campsite, we
found Caleb was right. Our tents had
been ransacked. All of our food and beer
was gone along with pretty much
everything else of value, too.
Whoever it was even took the poles out
of my tent. And to this day, I wonder
what they planned on using them for if
they didn't take the fabric along with
them. Caleb's tent, which was much more
expensive and roomy than mine, was gone
entirely, and we didn't stick around.
Not wanting to leave behind any of our
crap, we tossed whatever hadn't been
stolen from us onto the fabric of my
tent and then rolled it up and carried
it back to the truck before we drove
home. Then what happened became just
another campfire tale, I guess. We did
go camping again. Caleb and I went other
places with mutual friends of ours
tagging along, but we sure as hell
didn't head out into the Catkills
anymore. I can tell you that much.
[Music]
A few years back, my wife Gemma and I
were headed for a cozy weekend in a
cabin in the Catskills when my car
crapped out on me about 10 mi outside
Tannersville.
We've been driving for a couple of hours
already on roads that weave through the
forests of upstate New York when out of
nowhere. The dashboard lights flickered
and then went dark.
I turned the key over a few times,
willing her to start up again, but the
engine only coughed. Then, without any
signal on our phones, we had no choice
but to walk someplace to get help. About
a mile or two down the road, we found a
small auto shop, which honestly felt
like a godsend in the circumstances.
It was an old haggarded looking place
with grimy windows, but my wife and I
didn't mind. We were too happy to have
found exactly what we needed when we
needed it most.
We called out this very cheerful
greeting as we walked inside. And then a
mechanic promptly appeared from the
back. He was probably in his 50s or 60s
and he wasn't nearly as pleased to see
us as we were to see him. But we didn't
mind, especially when he assured us that
he could have our car towed and fixed by
the following morning.
As we paid, he asked what we were doing
in the area. Then when we mentioned the
cabin, he stopped writing on our bill
for a moment and just stared at us.
He asked where the cabins were and then
we told him and he paused before saying,
"You don't know much about the area, do
you?"
And we knew that there were cabins to
rent at these bargain prices and we knew
it was peaceful and very secluded, too.
But other than that, we didn't know much
at all. The guy gave a sarcastic laugh
when we mentioned the bargain prices and
then asked us rhetorically why we
thought that was. He then started
explaining how the people who lived up
around the cabins didn't take kindly to
them being built, nor did they take
kindly to the people who stayed in them.
This was obviously the absolute last
thing we wanted to hear. The cabin had
been cheaper than many others in the
area, but it was still a real nice place
that cost us almost a,000 bucks of our
hard-earned cash. We didn't want to just
turn tail and run, but there was also
the question of how at risk we'd be if
we didn't.
We asked the mechanic if he thought that
we should just cancel, even if it meant
losing our money, and he said he
wouldn't go that far, not personally
anyway, and that as long as we stayed
around the cabins and didn't stray too
far from the woods, we'd probably be
fine.
However, he did say that if anything
weird started happening around the
cabin, if anyone showed up and started
trying to intimidate us, that the safest
thing to do was to get the hell out of
there.
He asked if we were armed and as it
happened to be, I brought my Sig along
just in case there were bears or
something. He told me to keep it handy
regardless if we saw or heard anything.
And then after waiting for one of his
buddies to show up, we managed to get
ourselves a ride to the cabin. It was a
tense ride to say the least. Not only
because I was super wary of what we'd
been told, but me and my wife disagreed
on whether the warning was actually
genuine or not.
See, she'd gotten a completely different
read on this mechanic and thought his
attitude totally flipped on us once he
realized we were tourists, staying in
this nice, pretty much gentrified
cabins. She thought that everything he
said afterwards was intended to freak us
out and spoil our weekend, and how that
was a jerkoff thing to do to two
oblivious city folks. And as I said, I
didn't agree with her at all. Everything
he said felt pretty genuine. And if he
secretly hated us, fixing us a ride to
the cabin sure was a weird way of
showing it. We were both still pretty
tense as we arrived. But once we got
inside, our spirits were lifted
immensely because not only was the
inside just as rustically luxurious as
advertised, but a little walk around the
perimeter showed nothing but peaceful,
barely touched forest.
There were no shadowy strangers walking
between the trunks, no weird symbols
carved into the trees, and while there
were plenty of animal noises, they were
much more exciting than they were
spooky.
After our walk, we unpacked our bags and
made ourselves some dinner and then kept
on enjoying what we thought would be a
weekend of peace and quiet. Part of me
kept thinking about the mechanic's
warning, but as I said, seeing the place
up close and taking a walk around did a
lot to calm our nerves. Not to mention,
I had my gun with me and I was confident
in my ability to defend both of us. If
anything went wrong, we'd be fine. At
least that's what we told ourselves the
afternoon we arrived. What was supposed
to be our first night, but ended up
being our last, passed uneventfully, but
not quietly. The forest itself was super
loud, something I really didn't expect.
There were crickets, owls, and pretty
sure I heard a coyote howto, but there
was nothing that passed over the line
from cool to creepy. And both me and
Gemma slept pretty well. The next
morning, we got up, took showers, and
made some coffee. And then we sat on the
porch looking out into the woods,
wondering what the hell we were so
spooked about during the previous day.
At that point, with the woods all
peaceful and with fine weather over us,
it was like a little slice of woodland
heaven right there in front of us. And
then, out of nowhere, I saw something
that changed everything.
Maybe 20 to 30 yards out, there was a
tree that looked off. One of the thicker
branches near the top looked neatly cut
and was leaning at an unnatural angle.
After picking myself up from our seat on
the porch, I walked into the trees to
take a look at it. I quickly realized
that there was a log jammed into one of
the trees and that it was being
sandwiched against the trunk by a long
stick that had been weaved between the
branches.
This probably sounds painfully naive to
more rural folks, but when I first
looked at it, I didn't realize what I
was looking at. I thought it might have
been a tree sculpture or something,
maybe a Native American thing I hadn't
heard of. But then I noticed the wire
that had been strung down the tree
trunk, and it ran off into the
underbrush at its base. I took a few
more steps along what was roughly a worn
trail, following the wires assumed path
with my eyes, until I saw it emerge
again, only 10 yard ahead of me. It was
strung right across the path that I was
on. H if I had walked any further, maybe
without that coffee, there's a chance
that I wouldn't have noticed it at all.
But there it was, clear as day. And once
I saw it running horizontally across the
trail, I realized what it was. It was a
trap, and it was intended for us.
When I showed Gemma, I saw the look of
horror on her face as she too realized
what it was. I grabbed the stick and
tossed it at the wire. And then when it
hit, the wire pulled out the log support
and it came crashing down onto the trail
almost exactly where the trip wire had
been. Gemma yelped when it hit the dirt.
And I'd be lying if I said I wasn't
majorly freaked out, too. If I'd been
standing there when it fell, I'd have
been a dead man. We took another careful
walk around the cabin, eyes glued to the
ground when we were moving, and then
looking up into the trees whenever we
were still. We found a pile of stones
stacked in an unnatural way, and we both
decided it looked suspiciously like a
marker of some kind. There was also a
strip of cloth tied to a branch not far
from the cabin, and we wondered if that
too was some kind of marker or
indicator.
As we walked back to the cabin, we
decided that we weren't going to stay
for another minute. We packed up the
rest of our things and walked all the
way back to that auto shop. It took us
maybe an hour plus to get there and I
was worried that we might get lost along
the way. But after hitting the highway,
it was a straight shot to the shop. When
we arrived, our car was parked out front
and when we went inside to collect the
keys, that same mechanic was there. He
took one look at our faces and knew we'd
found something out there. We told him
all about the trap we'd found in the
trees, how it would have done some
serious damage if we'd triggered it
accidentally.
He said he'd never heard about the new
traps before, but he wouldn't put it
past the folks up there to lay a few
down. He also said he was glad we were
okay, and when we said we were headed
home early, he offered to refund the
money we paid him to fix the car as a
gesture of goodwill.
I think he knew that we were decent
enough to refuse him, but he could tell
that he felt genuinely bad for us on
account of how shaken up we were. We
appreciated it. We really did. But we've
also never returned to that area and we
never intend to.
[Music]
Almost 20 years ago, I joined a
volunteer search party looking for a
missing kid up in the Catskills. It was
a cold morning when I showed up at this
place called Plat Clove Valley. a
retiree with too much free time on my
hands and a nagging need to do something
useful with myself.
The kid was a six-year-old boy, last
seen chasing a stray dog into the woods.
The police had called the volunteers for
help, and then myself and about 50 other
volunteers answered the call. Under the
supervision of cops and professional
search and rescuers, we searched all
morning without any luck. It rained in
the afternoon and about a dozen people
headed home soaking wet. The rest of us
were told that we were welcome to carry
on searching into the night. So that's
what we did. It made for a tough going.
It was very cold. It rained again. And
the nature of the terrain meant that we
were almost constantly walking up one
hill after the other. The group spread
out in a loose line of these bobbing
flashlights. And we called the boy's
name over and over, and some of us
yelled till we lost our voice. My back
got really stiff from the hours of
walking. And after a while, it started
to really hurt. But it kept moving. The
thought of some kid out there all alone
and afraid kept me going long into the
night. I'd like to say that all of my
fellow volunteers were good eggs, but
one caught my eye early on, and not for
the right reasons. He was quiet, kept to
himself, and was always lingering at the
edge of the group. He wore this faded
green jacket, the hood pulled low over
his face when it rained, and he moved
with a very strange kind of caution
about him. I thought that was because he
was paying attention to his
surroundings, but after a while, I
wasn't so sure anymore. I didn't know
his name. Nobody seemed to. He'd shown
up with the rest of us, nodded at the
police briefing, and then followed
along. I didn't notice anything at
first, but after a while, I did.
He didn't call out for the boy like the
rest of us did. He just walked head down
with his hands in his pockets like he
was just sort of going through the
motions.
And as the night dragged on, our group
got more and more tense. Some of us had
been there more than 12 hours, and we'd
walked miles upon miles of woods without
finding anything whatsoever. And there
was no sign of the boy. No footprints,
no scraps of clothing, nothing.
The other volunteers were starting to
crack from the exhaustion. And I was
feeling it myself. But it wasn't just
that. It was that sort of creeping dread
that settles in when hope starts to fade
and people start considering the worst.
We'd all been so hopeful that morning,
but that night all that cheeryfulness
was gone and was replaced by something
very dark.
Around that same time, I noticed the man
in the green jacket avoiding a
particular stretch of the valley he'd
been assigned to search. It was a rocky
area thick with brambles and fallen
logs, but it wasn't impassible.
We'd been told to check every inch of
our grids, but he steered clear, always
finding a reason to drift into other
areas that were already being covered.
At one point, I saw him staring into the
ravine that he seemed to be avoiding.
His flashlight beam was just kind of
lingering on it for a moment before he
turned and walked away.
I felt my heart sink as suspicion crept
into my mind. It wasn't just that he was
avoiding it. It was like he knew
something we didn't.
I tried to shake it off. I was almost
completely exhausted. So, I was kind of
mad at myself for jumping to
conclusions. But then I saw him do it a
second time, skirting that exact same
way near the ravine.
I remember watching his steps quicken as
he passed it. The other volunteers
didn't seem to notice. They were too
focused on their own patches of ground,
but I did. I kept my eyes on him for a
while and then decided to search the
ravine myself.
I walked down the valley, past the man
in the green jacket, and was no more
than a few feet into the ravine when I
spotted something ahead of me, lit up by
the beam of my flashlight,
and the sight of it stopped me cold.
I remember my flashlight sweeping over
the dirt, and there it was, a small blue
toy car, half buried in the leaves.
My breath caught in my throat when I saw
it because it was the toy the boy had
with him when he ran off into the woods.
It was scratched with one wheel bent,
but it perfectly matched the description
the boy's parents had given.
I called out to the rest of the group.
The first to arrive was one of the
police officers, and I showed him the
toy right away. I didn't say anything
about the man in the green jacket. Not
yet. I didn't want to sound paranoid,
but most of all, I didn't want to stir
up trouble in a group that was already
on edge.
The man in the green jacket reappeared,
slipping back into the group like he'd
never left. I watched him as he stood at
the back, his hood still up and his
hands still stuffed deep in his pockets.
I was convinced that he'd seen the toy,
but had chosen not to report it, and I
couldn't keep quiet anymore.
I suddenly pulled one of the officers
aside and in a low voice, I told him
what I'd seen. I told him how the man
avoided the ravine and how he seemed to
know more than he let on. The officer
listened and nodded along. Then when I
was done, he thanked me for letting him
know and said he'd discuss what he'd
heard with his fellow officers.
He didn't do anything right away, so I
figured they weren't going to act on the
word of some exhausted and half crazy
old person. But a little while later, I
saw two officers approached the man in
the green jacket.
They stepped away from the group, and I
couldn't hear what was being said, but I
saw the man's shoulders stiffen as he
became very defensive.
They talked for a few minutes with the
man gesturing, and then he turned and
walked off into the dark.
Around 1:00 in the morning, before I
left, I asked the officer what had
happened when he spoke to the man in the
green jacket. He said the man had been
questioned, had denied knowing anything
about the boy's disappearance, and had
been so offended at having to justify
himself that he actually left the search
entirely.
Now, having made a note of his name on
his ID, they knew who he was. But he was
unlikely to be questioned unless the
investigation pointed in his direction.
And I understood the police can't just
arrest someone on some hunch.
But on the walk back to my car, I
couldn't stop thinking about the man in
the green jacket and about that ravine
he'd avoided. And the next day, I went
back for a second day of searching, but
the mood seemed to be different. Nobody
talked much. There weren't as many
smiles, and even when people did, the
smiles never seemed to reach their eyes.
The man in the green jacket didn't show
up again, but his absence felt louder
than his presence ever had. One little
talk with the cops, and he just quit.
and it didn't sit right with me and I
don't think it ever will. I didn't find
out what happened to the boy or what the
man in the green jacket knew. And since
he was never arrested, at least to my
knowledge, I have to accept that I'm
going to die not knowing. And that, my
friend, is a very bitter pill to
swallow.
[Music]
My name's Rachel. I'm from New York and
I see that you post a lot of hiking and
camping stories, so I figured I'd send
mine in. I used to do a lot of solo
hiking in my early 20s, something I
picked up in college and then carried
with me into the real world. It was my
number one stress reliever in my chosen
method of exercise. But that all changed
after a trip to the Catskills, one that
ended up being the last solo hiking trip
I ever went on.
I went to college in Pennsylvania, so
while I'd visited a lot of the trails
and parks over there, my native New York
remained mostly unexplored.
That meant my trip to the Catskills in
November of 2017, specifically to a
place called Blackthornne Ridge was my
first.
I enjoyed the exercise aspect of hiking,
but sometimes it was the solitude I
crave the most, and I'd sometimes shy
away from the more pedestrian trails in
order to see the less traveled areas of
the places I visited. So, you can
imagine my surprise when, while working
through a patch of pine trees, I saw a
small leatherbound object sitting at the
base of a tree. Being the naturally
curious soul that I am, I walked over
and picked it up. And while it had
obviously been there for a long time, I
found that it was in relatively good
condition. It was a small leatherbound
notebook. And then when I opened it up,
I saw it was actually somebody's
journal.
It felt a little rude and obviously
intrusive at first, just kind of reading
someone's journal like that. But since
the notes seem to focus on the details
of the writer's hike, I figured it
wouldn't hurt if I just sort of thumb
through it a little, especially if it
meant being able to return their journal
to them once I got back home.
The first entries I read were pretty
ordinary and mostly talked about being
on a winding path through a place called
Blackthorn Ridge, which coincidentally
was pretty much exactly where I was
standing.
The notebook's owner was also a solo
hiker and obviously somewhat of a
kindred spirit, I guess, because they
wrote about the thrill of being out
there alone. How beautiful and peaceful
it was and how it was their first time
in the area. It was like reading my own
story all written out ahead of time. And
I remember thinking how me and this
person would probably be good friends
should we ever meet one day. I closed
the journal, slid it into my jacket
pocket, and then carried on hiking along
the ridge till I felt the pang of hunger
creeping up on me. I stopped near some
flat rocks, took out my water bottle and
a few snacks, and then as I sat
cross-legged on one of the rocks, I just
kept reading the journal. I'd already
made a note of the person's name, as
there was a little note saying, "If
lost, please return to X." So, I knew
exactly where to mail it to once I got
back home.
But since I was lacking on any reading
material and this person's hiking
journal was so relevant, I figured that
I just keep reading on a little until
things got too personal.
But things didn't get personal, they
just got weird. I remember turning a
page and then seeing how the next entry
was written way different than the
others. Now, in short, it was just
clipped sentences. The person wrote
about how the woods didn't feel so
friendly anymore.
They wrote how the birds weren't singing
anymore and how the squirrels weren't
coming down from the trees, but
obviously not like I'm doing. All they
wrote was, "No birds, no critters, dead
quiet." The next words were, "Predator
in area, question mark." And it seemed
very rushed. So, I immediately glanced
up, start scanning the trees around me,
but I didn't get the same impression at
all. to me, and I was a pretty
experienced hiker at the time.
Everything seemed fine. The birds were
sound, the squirrels were bounding
around the forest floor. I could kind of
hear them, and I didn't even feel
remotely under that threat or in danger.
But then, as I read on, I got this
creeping feeling up my spine, as the
hiker's final entry mentioned a place
called Hollow Crag.
They said that there was this rocky
clearing just beyond a meadow where the
grass dropped into a shallow basin. All
they wrote after that was something
like, "Warn any other hikers. Stay
away." They didn't explain what that
exact danger was, they only warned
against going there. But those final few
words about warning other hikers about
staying away, they looked almost
scratched into the page like whoever had
written it was scared out of their
minds. I remember closing the journal
over and tucking it back into my jacket
and with that creeping feeling working
its way up my spine. Not because I feel
like I was being watched or anything or
my spidey sense was tingling or anything
woo woo like that. It was because Hollow
Crag was on my list of actual
destinations that day. I had marked it
on my map as one of five checkpoints in
an oval-shaped route that would take me
all the way up Blackthorn Ridge and back
again. It was supposed to serve as my
more than halfway now checkpoint. So
unless I wanted to dramatically delay my
return home by adding 2 or 3 hours to my
journey, I had to pass by Hollow Crag to
stay on schedule. I could skirt around
it, but I couldn't avoid it. And at the
time, that seemed like it would be
enough. But looking back on it, I should
have just swallowed the loss and
resigned myself to hiking the extra
hours. Because when that journal said to
stay away from Hollow Crag, it should
have really said avoid it at all costs.
I got myself back on the trail so I
could better navigate the area, but
seeing how far out I was, it was barely
any clearer than the terrain on either
side of it. Roots were creeping under
the soil, and lowhanging branches made
it so I had to stoop down while paying
extra attention to my footing.
I should have been getting pretty tired
at that point. I'd been hiking solidly
for a few hours, but I was also getting
a nice steady hit of adrenaline every
time I thought about what was written in
that journal. I'd glance over my
shoulder every so often, half expecting
to see someone following me. But the
forest seemed empty, just me in the
trees.
There was no one in sight, but that
didn't mean no one was there. And I
remember the moment I heard this loud
snap coming from behind me.
It sounded like a big branch being
ripped from a tree with a ton of force,
like this sharp tearing snap of wood.
It sounded like it was maybe 50 yards
back, but I didn't stop for a better
guess, I guess. And I kept moving,
thinking to myself, it's behind you, not
ahead of you. You're safe for now. Just
keep beating feet. And I started moving
a little faster, risking a fall to put
some distance between me and whoever
made that noise. I kept my ears open for
any other sounds, too. But aside from my
own breathing and footsteps, there was
nothing. I knew I should have looked
back just to make sure that it was
clear, but I couldn't. I guess there's a
part of me that was still pretending it
was all just in my head, so I couldn't
bring myself to look back.
I just kept moving steadily toward a
curve in the trail, knowing I'd need to
conserve every last ounce of energy if I
was going to make a run for it. I sped
up a little as I took the curve, but as
I reached its end, I found myself faced
with thinning trees and a large expanse
of open grass.
There was a wide, shallow bowl of rock
and sparse grass, just as the person's
hiking journal had described. It was
hollow crag, and there was no getting
around it. It's not like I wanted to
step out into the open, but doubling
back meant facing whoever was behind me.
So, I did the only thing I could and
started to cross it.
As I walked, my eyes darted toward every
flicker of movement as my heart rate
began to skyrocket from the terror of
being so exposed.
Once again, it seemed like I was alone
as I couldn't see anything but grass and
tree trunks on the other side of the
crag. But I knew that was impossible. I
knew there was someone following me. And
while I was alone, they weren't.
I remember finally being brave enough to
turn around and check behind me, but my
head only made it 90 before I saw the
second guy off to my left. There was
some type of figure walking at the far
edge of the crag, one that moved out of
the treeine and out into the afternoon
sun in the moments after I spotted him.
He was tall, strong looking, and had the
confidence of an outdoorsman about him.
But I could tell right away he was no
hiker. His clothes were very wrong. They
were tattered, mismatched, like he
pieced them together from scraps of men
and women's clothing. He stopped as soon
as he saw me, and I mean it very
literally when I say that I felt his
eyes on me. All I could do was clutch
the straps of my pack and start walking
faster, aiming for the trail on the
other side. I had hoped that he'd stay
where he was, but he didn't. He
followed.
The second man slipped back into the
treeine again, probably in the hopes
that I hadn't spotted him right away.
Then he moved parallel to me, mirroring
my movements as I pushed towards the
trail. At this point, my legs were
burning from the exertion, and I wasn't
even running yet. I knew that, like any
predator, running would be the trigger
for them to chase me. And when that
chase started, it needed to start on my
terms, not theirs.
The trail was close now, maybe 30 to 40
yard, but I could still see the second
men keeping pace to my left, ready to
swoop in at any moment.
I didn't know who those men were or what
they wanted, but the journal's warning
screamed in my mind, and I knew I had to
move faster. I reached the trail and
broke into a jog. Then, when I heard a
gruff voice behind me yell, "She's
getting away." I burst into a sprint.
Even with low branches scratching at my
face and even with my pack bounced
painfully against my back, I ran as fast
and as far as my legs could carry me
because I'd never been so scared in my
entire life in those moments.
I needed as much distance between us as
possible. But moving faster meant the
risk of losing my footing. And
unfortunately for me, it didn't take
long for that to happen.
I remember stumbling over a route and
only barely catching myself against a
tree, pushing off with my hands that
were already scraped and bleeding and
then kept running as my legs and lungs
were still burning. I had a nice clear
patch at one point, a stretch that I
could really get my legs pumping, but it
didn't last. The trail suddenly twisted
downhill, and while that meant that I
was making progress, it also meant that
I nearly lost my feet again.
That time I was even luckier not to go
tumbling down that slope, which at that
stage probably could have been fatal.
So, in an attempt to stay on more stable
ground, I veered off the trail and into
the undergrowth, hoping that might help
me lose these men chasing me. I don't
know how long I ran, but I was at my
absolute limit when I finally stopped
for what could only be a short break. I
was huffing air. My vision was all dizzy
as the force blurred around me, and I
fought the urge to puke. My legs
obviously were screaming for rest, but I
couldn't stop. I had to keep moving,
even if the only thing keeping me going
was pure terror.
I ran until the forest began to thin out
and the trees gave way to a gravel path.
I followed it, practically staggering
from the exhaustion until I saw a ranger
station, a small wooden building with a
green door. The relief was overwhelming,
so strong that tears started to fill my
eyes as my legs felt like they were
literally going to give out. I climbed
the steps and pounded on that door. No
one answered, but the door was unlocked,
so I pushed it open and stepped inside.
And like any good traumatic event, I got
to enjoy a wonderfully horrifying moment
of a false ending. Because when I walked
inside, I saw that that station was
empty.
There was no ranger, just a single room
with a desk, a radio, and a map of the
CAT skills pinned to the wall. I locked
the door behind me and sank to the
floor, keeping my back against it as one
final line of defense against anyone
that might have followed me. When I
heard nothing but silence for what must
have been a half hour or so, I took the
journal from my jacket and placed it on
the ranger's desk. I don't know why I
did that at first, but now looking back
on it, it feels like I was saying,
"Okay, no more. I give up and I don't
want to play anymore."
I know it was superstitious, but the sun
was already setting when I arrived at
the ranger station, and by the time I
felt sturdy enough to walk again, it was
almost full dark outside.
I knew it would be incredibly stupid to
head back out into the woods, so I just
stayed there until morning, too afraid
to move. And when the sun finally rose
up, and there was just enough light
coming through the station's small
window for me to see, I forced myself to
stand again.
My body was aching from the previous
day, but it was either get on the move
or stay there with no food or water for
another night.
I left the journal on the desk. I didn't
want or need it anymore. And besides,
the ranger needed to read it a hell of a
lot more than I did, I think. And when I
stepped outside, the forest was so much
more quiet and peaceful than the
previous evening that it was like being
in a different place altogether.
Then, after walking for some time down a
large trail, I heard a truck. At first,
I was about to run, but when I saw the
ranger decal, I started frantically
flagging them down. The truck stopped
and the ranger got out looking startled
till I assured him that everything was
fine. At least by then it was fine
anyway.
I told him about the men near Hollow
Crag. How on their own it had been
frightening but coupled with what was in
that journal. My mind was spinning and
I've been absolutely scared beyond all
comprehension to be up there alone with
those weirdos. I didn't know what kind
of a reaction I was really expecting,
but I definitely wasn't expecting the
ranger to just sort of sigh. Like it was
a pretty regular annoyance for him. Now,
for me, getting chased off of that area
was one of the most terrifying
experiences my whole life. But to the
ranger, that was the third time it had
happened that year. He laid it out for
me as he gave me a ride back to the
trail head. The rangers didn't know much
about the men who lived up there, only
that they were aggressive and didn't
like people passing through.
The only attempt to communicate with
them had resulted in a warning shot from
some kind of bow, one that resulted in
an arrow slamming into a tree right
close to the rers's head. So rather than
risk a full-blown Ruby Ridge rerun, the
rangers decided to just close the trail
off and leave them be. That's half the
reason it was so overgrown. But the two
men up there took down any closed trail
signs that rangers tried to put up,
which is why I didn't see any heading
in. I remember asking the ranger why
they'd take the signs down if they
didn't want anyone near Hollow Crag
there. And he said that he didn't know
exactly, but his guess was they hated
everything associated with the federal
government, cheap plastic signs
included.
It was a major shock hearing it all like
that and learning so casually that they
were just sort of these wild people
living up in the mountains and that the
government was basically like okay
whatever I guess and that's what really
drove it home for me that America is
still a wild country and it's wild in
more ways than one. People think of the
city as a dangerous place and the
country is safe but that trip to the
Catkills made me realize just how wrong
that is. Some people are out there far
from civilization, living by nobody's
rules but their own. And while on paper
that might sound cool, the reality can
be horrifying for those who actually
cross their paths.
[Music]
I've been photographing wildlife around
Balsam for years when this happened.
Trail cameras were my eyes when I wasn't
there. And I'd rigged them to the trees
and they'd snap motion triggered shots
day and night. Now, that summer that
this happened, I set up five cameras
near a stream where bears often
wandered. And the plan was simple. I'd
leave them for a week, retrieve the
footage, and sort through the images for
keepers. But I ended up getting way, way
more than I bargained for. The first
sign of trouble came when I reviewed the
footage back at my cabin. Most of the
cameras had captured what I'd hoped for.
Bears lumbering through the brush with
their eyes glinting that sort of
infrared glow. But one camera, tucked
much deeper in the woods, showed
something else.
One night, a man walked into shot, but
not some hiker or camper. This guy
looked like he'd been living wild for
years. His clothes were torn and filthy,
and after walking into the shot, he'd
started digging in the dirt with his
hands, just sort of clawing at the earth
like some type of animal.
His movements were frantic, almost
feral, but he never once looked at the
camera, and I assumed that he hadn't
seen it. I remember staring at the
grainy images, my mouth just kind of
hanging wide open, just completely
astounded by what I was seeing. Who the
hell was he? And what the hell was he
doing out there? The footage obviously
gave no concrete answers. All I had were
pictures of him scraping at the ground
in the middle of the night. It wasn't so
much what he was doing either. It was
the way he was doing it. Something about
the way he moved, the way his head
twitched as he worked. It scared the
crap out of me. So rather than be in the
same section of the forest as this dude,
I decided to retrieve the cameras the
next day, a whole 2 days earlier than
planned.
I wanted those images safe, and I didn't
like the idea of being alone in the
woods with someone like that walking
around at night.
The next morning, I hiked back to the
stream where I'd rigged the cameras. I
found the first camera easily, but the
second I saw it, my heart sank. The lens
was shattered and the casing cracked
like someone had taken a rock to it. I
checked the next one and found the same
thing. Someone had smashed it to pieces.
By the third one, my hands were already
shaking with anger. Four out of five
were ruined with their memory cards
either missing or found crushed on the
ground where they'd been rigged. Only
one camera, deepest in the woods, was
still intact. I hesitated before
checking it, as part of me wanted to
grab it and just leave, but I needed to
know what was on it. So, I popped out
the memory card and slid it into my
portable viewer. The first few clips
were normal, just animals of varying
shapes and sizes. And then I saw him,
the same man in the same tattered
clothes. But this time, he wasn't
digging. He was standing right in front
of the camera, staring into the lens.
His face filled the frame, very pale,
gauntlooking, with big dark circles
under his eyes. His lips moved like he
was muttering something, but the camera
didn't pick up sound. His eyes locked
onto the lens like he knew something was
watching. I shut off the viewer, yanked
the camera from the tree, and then got
the hell out of there. I stuffed the
camera in my backpack, and started back
toward the trail head. My car was a
two-mile hike away, but every step felt
like it took forever. The forest didn't
feel peaceful at all anymore.
Now, I couldn't shake the image of that
guy's face, and the way those hollow
eyes seemed to stare right through the
lens. What did he want? Why had he
smashed the cameras? And why had he left
that one, the one with a video of him?
It almost felt like a message and one
that was easily understood. It clearly
said, "Leave now." And I tried to
reassure myself, thinking that maybe he
was just some hermit spooked by the
cameras. But deep down, I knew better.
He looked right at me through the lens.
He clearly wanted me to see him.
After an hour or so of very tense
walking, the trail opened up and I saw
the faint outline of the clearing where
I'd parked. I walked over to my car and
then when I reached it, I glanced back
at the treeine, half expecting to see
him staring back at me. But there was
nothing. No movement, no sound. But I
knew he was out there, and that was
enough to send a shiver through me. I
climbed into the car, slammed the door,
and locked it. And I drove all the way
home without stopping.
I didn't go back to Balsam after that.
The footage from the last camera stayed
on the memory card unviewed and I
couldn't bring myself to watch it again
and see his face. I packed up my gear
and moved my work to a different range
far from those woods. The bears of
Balsam Lake would have to wait.
Hey friends, thanks for listening. Click
that notification bell to be alerted of
all future narrations. I release new
videos every Monday and Thursday at 9:00
p.m. Eastern time, and there are super
fun live streams every Sunday and
Wednesday nights. If you got a story, be
sure to send them over at my email,
let's read submissions@gmail.com,
and you might even hear your story
featured on the next video. And if you
want to support me even more, grab early
access and all future narrations and
bonus content over on Patreon, or click
that big join button here on YouTube to
hear about the extra perks for members
of the channel. And check out the Let's
Read podcast where you can hear all of
these stories and big compilations
located anywhere you listen to podcasts.
And I also have a true crime channel
called Saturn Soul. All links in the
description below. Thanks so much,
friends. And remember, the only way out
is up.